CeramicStudio/web-playground#29: Quickstart Upgrade (#110)
ceramicnetwork/docs: docs/build/javascript/quick-start.md

# Quickstart
Learn the basics by setting up and interacting with the [Ceramic Javascript Client](./javascript/installation.md).

!!! warning ""
    **Want an even faster way to try Ceramic? Visit the [Playground Demo App](https://playground.ceramic.dev){:target="_blank"} to test the full stack of Ceramic components in the browser.

## **1. Install the Client**

Visit the [Ceramic Client](./javascript/installation.md) page for instructions on how to quickly install the Client.

## **2. Create a stream**
Creating streams is dependent on the StreamType. More details can be found in our [StreamTypes Overview](../streamtypes/overview.md). A basic sample using the [TileDocument StreamType](../streamtypes/tile-document/overview.md) can be found below.

=== "Command"

    ```JavaScript
    import { TileDocument } from '@ceramicnetwork/stream-tile'

    const doc = await TileDocument.create(ceramic, {hello: 'world'})

>     const streamId = doc.id.toString()

Reviewer: Maybe also add a `console.log(doc.content)` here to quickly show where the data end up?

    ```

## **3. Query a stream**
Use the `load()` function to query the current [state](../learn/glossary.md#state) of a stream. You will need to provide it's *StreamID*.

=== "Command"

    ```JavaScript
    const streamId = "kjzl6cwe1jw147ww5d8pswh1hjh686mut8v1br10dar8l9a3n1wf8z38l0bg8qa"

>     const stream = await TileDocument.load(streamId)

Reviewer: We call the variable `stream` here, but above and below we use `doc`.

Reviewer: Might make sense to do `console.log(doc.content)` here as well!

# Quickstart

> Learn the basics by setting up and interacting with the [Ceramic CLI](./cli/installation.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Learn the basics by setting up and interacting with the [Ceramic Javascript Client](./javascript/installation.md)
```

Reviewer 2: I don't know if I messed up my suggested edits last time around or if something got re-arranged here

!!! warning ""
    **Want an even faster way to try Ceramic? Visit the [Playground Demo App](https://playground.ceramic.dev){:target="_blank"} to test the full stack of Ceramic Components in the browser.

## **1. Install the Client**

Visit the [Ceramic Client](./javascript/installation.md) page for instructions on how to quickly install the Client.

## **2. Create a stream**

> Creating streams is dependent on the StreamType of the record. More details can be found in our [StreamTypes Overview](../streamtypes/overview.md). A basic sample can be found below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Creating streams is dependent on the StreamType. More details can be found in our [StreamTypes Overview](../streamtypes/overview.md). A basic sample using the [TileDocument StreamType](../streamtypes/tile-document/overview.md) can be found below.
```

=== "Command"

    ```JavaScript
    import { TileDocument } from '@ceramicnetwork/stream-tile'

    const schemaId = 'k3y52l7qbv1fry1fp4s0nwdarh0vahusarpposgevy0pemiykymd2ord6swtharcw' // this is our Basic Profile Schema.
    

>     const content = {

Reviewer 2: I don't think this will pass validation of the basic profile schema.  If we're going to use a real concrete schema in the example we should make sure it actually works with the example data

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure how big is the minimal profile that will be accepted by the Basic Profile schema.  If it's small you could update the test data to match the schema, but if it's large I also think it'd be fine to just not set a schema in this example.

Author: Oops, wrote the content before adding the schema. 

Regarding not needing the schema, I thought the same thing initially but decided to use the basic schema so that someone following along could actually create their own stream easily. I'd rather provide all of the useful information where it's needed (unless it's explained in a previous step).

Reviewer 2: for the record, schemas are optional in TileDocuments so you don't *need* to set a schema to create a Stream.  But I see you updated the content to match the basic profile schema, and that seems fine for this example.

      foo: 'bar'
    }
    const metadata = {
      controllers: [ceramic.did.id],
      family: 'Document Family',
      schema: schemaId
    }

    const doc = await TileDocument.create(ceramic, content, metadata)

    const streamId = doc.id.toString()
    ```

## **3. Query a stream**
Use the `loadStream()` function to query the current [state](../learn/glossary.md#state) of a stream. You will need to provide it's *StreamID*

=== "Command"

    ```JavaScript
    const streamId = "kjzl6cwe1jw147ww5d8pswh1hjh686mut8v1br10dar8l9a3n1wf8z38l0bg8qa"

>     const stream = await ceramic.loadStream(streamId)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    const stream = await TileDocument.load(streamId)
```

Reviewer 2: Using the StreamType-specific load method will let you use StreamType specific functionality.  For example, the way streams get updated is streamtype-specific, so if you want to be able to access the TileDocument's `.update()` method to update the stream after loading it, you need to specify the type.  The default `Stream` type that's returned by `loadStream()` doesn't include any update functionality (or any other streamtype-specific accessors)

    ```JavaScript
    const streamId = "kjzl6cwe1jw147ww5d8pswh1hjh686mut8v1br10dar8l9a3n1wf8z38l0bg8qa"
    const doc = await TileDocument.load(ceramic, streamId)

    await doc.update({foo: 'baz'}, {tags: ['baz']})
    ```
<!-- API Reference here -->

## **5. Create a schema**
TileDocuments can enforce that their contents adhere to a specified schema. The schemas themselves are TileDocuments where the content is a [json-schema](https://json-schema.org){:target="_blank"}. For example we can create a schema that requires a TileDocument to have a *title* and a *message*.

=== "Command"

    ```JavaScript
    const schema = {
      "$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
      "title": "Reward",
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "title": { "type": "string" },
        "message": { "type": "string" }
      },
      "required": [
        "message",
        "title"
      ]
    }
    const metadata = {
      controllers: [ceramic.did.id] // this will set yourself as the controller of the schema
    }
    const rewardSchema = await TileDocument.create(ceramic, schema, metadata)
    ```

## **6. Create a TileDocument stream that uses a schema**

> First, use the `rewardSchema.commitId.toString()` to list the [commitIDs](../learn/glossary.md#commitid) contained in the schema stream. When creating a TileDocument that usees this schema need to use a commitID instead of the StreamID. This is to enforce that we are using a specific version of the schema since the schema stream is mutable and can be updated.

Reviewer 2: `rewardSchema.commitId.toString()` just gets the CommitID of the current version, it doesn't list all CommitIDs for the history of the stream.  To do that you would do `rewardSchema.allCommitIds()`.

I think for this example just taking the current CommitID is probably fine

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, use the `rewardSchema.commitId.toString()` to get the current [commitID](../learn/glossary.md#commitid) of the schema stream. When creating a TileDocument that usees this schema need to use a commitID instead of the StreamID. This is to enforce that we are using a specific version of the schema since the schema stream is mutable and can be updated.
```

=== "Command"

    ```JavaScript
      const reward = await TileDocument.create(ceramic, {
        title: 'Hello',
        message: 'world!'
      }, {
        controllers: [ceramic.did.id],
        family: 'Rewards',
        schema: rewardSchema.commitId.toString(),
      })
    ```

> ## **7. Query the stream you created**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## **7. Inspect the state of the stream you created**
```

# Quickstart
Learn the basics by setting up and interacting with the [Ceramic Javascript Client](./javascript/installation.md).

!!! warning ""

>     **Want an even faster way to try Ceramic? Visit the [Playground Demo App](https://playground.ceramic.dev){:target="_blank"} to test the full stack of Ceramic Components in the browser.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    **Want an even faster way to try Ceramic? Visit the [Playground Demo App](https://playground.ceramic.dev){:target="_blank"} to test the full stack of Ceramic components in the browser.
```

## **1. Install the Client**

Visit the [Ceramic Client](./javascript/installation.md) page for instructions on how to quickly install the Client.

## **2. Create a stream**
Creating streams is dependent on the StreamType. More details can be found in our [StreamTypes Overview](../streamtypes/overview.md). A basic sample using the [TileDocument StreamType](../streamtypes/tile-document/overview.md) can be found below.

=== "Command"

    ```JavaScript
    import { TileDocument } from '@ceramicnetwork/stream-tile'

>     const schemaId = 'k3y52l7qbv1fry1fp4s0nwdarh0vahusarpposgevy0pemiykymd2ord6swtharcw' // this is our Basic Profile Schema.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    const schemaId = 'k3y52l7qbv1fry1fp4s0nwdarh0vahusarpposgevy0pemiykymd2ord6swtharcw' // this is the IDX Basic Profile Schema.
```

    
    const content = {
      name: 'Your Name',
      emoji: '✌🏻',
      description: 'Something about yourself'
    }
    const metadata = {
      controllers: [ceramic.did.id],
      family: 'Basic Profile',

>       schema: schemaId

Reviewer: Do we really want to demonstrate the use of an IDX schema / definition as the first example here? Wouldn't it be more easy to just create an hello world stream?

Author: It would be easier, but I feel like it would create a less holistic experience. I think that this example is easily parsable & would also work well as a reference for anyone just starting out.

Reviewer: But isn't IDX covered in the IDX specific quickstart?

Author: That's true, I think I got this confused in my head. For some reason, I thought that creating a stream was after querying a stream. Will update this example though.

Author: I now remember why I had it set up how it was. We cover creating a stream later in the documentation and the schema must be a commitId. So it just made more sense to not duplicate the content.

    }

    const doc = await TileDocument.create(ceramic, content, metadata)

    const streamId = doc.id.toString()
    ```

## **3. Query a stream**
Use the `load()` function to query the current [state](../learn/glossary.md#state) of a stream. You will need to provide it's *StreamID*.

=== "Command"

    ```JavaScript

>     const streamId = "kjzl6cwe1jw147ww5d8pswh1hjh686mut8v1br10dar8l9a3n1wf8z38l0bg8qa"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    const streamId = "kjzl6cwe1jw147ww5d8pswh1hjh686mut8v1br10dar8l9a3n1wf8z38l0bg8qa"  // This is just an example StreamID, you will need to use a StreamID relevant to your app.
```

Reviewer 2: This shouldn't be necessary but unfortunately we've already gotten people trying to follow our examples **exactly** and hitting issues. :facepalm:

Author: This actually is a live stream and not a demo stream. All demo streams are concatenated so that they are not useable specifically for this reason!

    ```JavaScript
    const streamId = "kjzl6cwe1jw147ww5d8pswh1hjh686mut8v1br10dar8l9a3n1wf8z38l0bg8qa"
    const doc = await TileDocument.load(ceramic, streamId)

    await doc.update({foo: 'baz'}, {tags: ['baz']})
    ```
<!-- API Reference here -->

## **5. Create a schema**
TileDocuments can enforce that their contents adhere to a specified schema. The schemas themselves are TileDocuments where the content is a [json-schema](https://json-schema.org){:target="_blank"}. For example we can create a schema that requires a TileDocument to have a *title* and a *message*.

=== "Command"

    ```JavaScript
    const schema = {
      "$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
      "title": "Reward",
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "title": { "type": "string" },
        "message": { "type": "string" }
      },
      "required": [
        "message",
        "title"
      ]
    }
    const metadata = {
      controllers: [ceramic.did.id] // this will set yourself as the controller of the schema
    }
    const rewardSchema = await TileDocument.create(ceramic, schema, metadata)
    ```

## **6. Create a TileDocument stream that uses a schema**

> First, use the `rewardSchema.commitId.toString()` to get the current [commitIDs](../learn/glossary.md#commitid) of the schema stream. When creating a TileDocument that uses this schema need to use a commitID instead of the StreamID. This is to enforce that we are using a specific version of the schema since the schema stream is mutable and can be updated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, use the `rewardSchema.commitId.toString()` to get the current [CommitID](../learn/glossary.md#commitid) of the schema stream. When creating a TileDocument that uses this schema you need to use a CommitID instead of the StreamID. This is to enforce that we are using a specific version of the schema since the schema stream is mutable and can be updated.
```

=== "Command"

    ```JavaScript
      const reward = await TileDocument.create(ceramic, {
        title: 'Hello',
        message: 'world!'
      }, {
        controllers: [ceramic.did.id],
        family: 'Rewards',
        schema: rewardSchema.commitId.toString(),
      })
    ```

## **7. Inspect the state of the stream you created**

> Use `reward.state` to query the state of the TileDocument we just created. We can see that the schema is set to the correctID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use `reward.state` to query the state of the TileDocument we just created. We can see that the schema is set to the correct CommitID.
```
